all right this is gonna be the little
solo part from Rime of the Ancient
Mariner by Iron Maiden Steve Harris one
of the greatest bass players of all time
in my opinion freaking love that guy he
freaking rocked Iron Maiden rhyming the
Ancient Mariner thank you so much for
joining me
I am Finbar a Finbar bass please click
on the little YouTube textbox right down
there there I have three lessons that
are not on YouTube you can't get them on
YouTube they're like little inner
sanctum lessons just for you clickers
out there and what they are is you're
gonna be learning all different types of
techniques but you're learning them in a
musical context right so they're all
these songs that you can play that are
gonna teach you you know different
techniques like hammer ons or slides
poles whatever it is right but you're
playing them as a song you're learning
music and it's almost like you don't
even know that you're actually
memorizing things and building muscle
memory and building your chops up and
that's kind of what this is all about
right you want to be able to learn but
you don't want it to be this like very
very monotonous mechanical sort of
learning which you know no matter what
you're gonna have to do some of that
anyway so why not make it you know as
much as you can fun right you're
learning something through music you're
learning you're having fun and that's
awesome so definitely click on those
lessons I think they're gonna be great
for you
this is how this is gonna go down you
are gonna have your finger placed on the
11th fret of the g string now what
you're doing here is every after every
note that you're playing on the g string
you are going to be riding on that open
D string so that's like your pedal note
right you're gonna hit that twice it's
twice so you're gonna have to get very
used to doing on that motion right there
with your fingers however you want to do
it I do it and I hit it once with my
middle finger and that's the a that
would be like hitting on the 11th fret
of the g string right then I'm gonna hit
twice on that open D string
and then I'm gonna hit again with my
middle finger see my middle finger keeps
going up and hitting that g-string just
like that so you got promotion and you
want to practice that over and over
again so you can get that up to speed
right incidentally this is very
difficult for me to do because I play
with three fingers playing this with two
fingers I used to play this with three
fingers all the time is a lot easier
because I just with this finger and then
your first finger in your third finger
are there already it's almost like just
very natural but I know most people play
with two fingers and I want to teach it
like that and I believe Steve Harris
uses two fingers if I'm not mistaken he
looks like he's playing with three but I
believe he uses two and there's good
clarity when you're using the two
fingers too just like that so what
you're gonna do is you're starting on
that 11th fret and you hit it you're
gonna hit that three times and go to the
twelfth fret
so you're gonna hit it once and then on
the third time you hit that that say
like the 11th fret you're only gonna hit
that string once instead of twice then
you move to the twelfth fret and then
you're on the fourteenth fret just like
that so you guys see so sometimes you
open D twice and now when you're on the
fourteenth fret you're actually gonna
hit that six times just like that so if
I do it kind of slow just like that now
that's what happens before he actually
starts singing before the verses come in
when the verses come in he does this
I'll just show you the g-string part so
that's gonna look like this
just like that when he sings along with
the sea creatures you're gonna move that
to the ninth fret right so this is the
eleventh you're gonna go back down to
the ninth fret you're gonna hit the
remember the D string you're gonna hit
it open twice twice oh and then he sings
on but they lived on so did he when he
sings he you're gonna move to that
seventh fret this'll sound familiar to
you probably just like that all right
Iron Maiden Rime of the Ancient Mariner
signature riff from that solo right
there you got it
I am Finbar of Finbar bass please do
once again click on the little youtube
clicker box right down there to get
three lessons that are not on YouTube
you can also subscribe to Finbar bass
Finbar bass if you feel like it and that
is my youtube channel tons and tons more
song tutorials on there that I think you
will like and other than that have fun
with that one yellow iron main Steve
Harris